README.md, before:

[![General Assembly Logo](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/1a91b05b8f4d44b5bbfb83abac2b0996d8e26c92/687474703a2f2f692e696d6775722e636f6d2f6b6538555354712e706e67)](https://generalassemb.ly/education/web-development-immersive)

# Authentication in Ember

This training will involve a lot of following code and and exploring the
Chrome Inspector and utilizing Ember Inspector.  It is recommended that you
comment code or take notes.

## Prerequisites

-   [Ember Resources](https://git.generalassemb.ly/ga-wdi-boston/ember-resources)

## Objectives

By the end of this, developers should be able to:

-   Implement token authentication in an Ember application.
-   Enforce authentication in protected routes.

## Preparation

1.  [Fork and clone](https://git.generalassemb.ly/ga-wdi-boston/meta/wiki/ForkAndClone)
    this repository.
1.  Install dependencies with `npm install` and `bower install`.
1.  Start any API based on a recent version of the [Rails API
    Template](https://git.generalassemb.ly/ga-wdi-boston/rails-api-template) or the
    [Express API
    Template](https://git.generalassemb.ly/ga-wdi-boston/express-api-template).
1.  Start the front-end server with `ember server`.

## From end to end

Watch as I sign up for a new account on our demo app.

*Other than the flash messages on the page, did anything change?  What about in
the Chrome Developer Tools?*

Take some time and sign in on your own, and check to see if anything in the
Chrome Dev Tools has changed.

Now that we have added a key tool to our personal developer toolkit lets look
at how it's implemented.

## Follow Along

Let's walk through file by file to see what's happening.  I will ask
developers to guide me through the files while correcting any misunderstandings.

First let's start down the template and component trail, then we'll work our way
up with actions.

*Remember: Data down, actions up.*

While going up the Ember hierarchy we may need to stop a some point to discuss
services.

## Additional Resources

-   [Implementing Authentication with Ember Services - Ember
    Igniter](http://emberigniter.com/implementing-authentication-with-ember-services/)
-   [jpadilla/ember-simple-auth-token: Ember Simple Auth extension that is
    compatible with token-based authentication like
    JWT.](https://github.com/jpadilla/ember-simple-auth-token)
-   [simplabs/ember-simple-auth: A library for implementing
    authentication/authorization in Ember.js
    applications.](https://github.com/simplabs/ember-simple-auth)
-   [EmberJS Authentication Tutorial](https://auth0.com/blog/emberjs-authentication-tutorial/)
-   [How To Import A Library on Ember.js](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38919757/how-to-import-a-library-on-ember-js)

## [License](LICENSE)

1.  All content is licensed under a CC­BY­NC­SA 4.0 license.
1.  All software code is licensed under GNU GPLv3. For commercial use or
    alternative licensing, please contact legal@ga.co.

Commit message:

Add installation instructions
- Add instructions for capstone project setup
- Include unzip command
close #31
close #36
close #37

README.md, after:

[![General Assembly Logo](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/1a91b05b8f4d44b5bbfb83abac2b0996d8e26c92/687474703a2f2f692e696d6775722e636f6d2f6b6538555354712e706e67)](https://generalassemb.ly/education/web-development-immersive)

# Authentication in Ember

This training will involve a lot of following code and and exploring the
Chrome Inspector and utilizing Ember Inspector.  It is recommended that you
comment code or take notes.

## Prerequisites

-   [Ember Resources](https://git.generalassemb.ly/ga-wdi-boston/ember-resources)

## Installation

1.  [Download](../../archive/master.zip) this template.
1.  Unzip and rename the template directory (`unzip ~/Downloads/ember-auth-template-master.zip`).
1.  Move into the new project and `git init`.
1.  Empty [`README.md`](README.md) and fill with your own content.
1.  Replace all instances of `ga-wdi-boston.ember-auth` with your app name. This
    includes:
      - [`app/adapters/application.js`](app/adapters/application.js)
      - [`app/index.html`](app/index.html)
      - [`app/services/ajax.js`](app/services/ajax.js)
      - [`config/environment.js`](config/environment.js)
      - [`package.json`](package.json)
      - [`tests/index.html`](tests/index.html)
      - [`tests/unit/initializers/text-field-test.js`](tests/unit/initializers/text-field-test.js)
1.  Install dependencies with `npm install`.
1.  `git add` and `git commit` your changes.
1.  Run the development server with `ember server`. Use the `--proxy` flag to
    avoid writing development-specific CORS and CSP settings.

## Objectives

By the end of this, developers should be able to:

-   Implement token authentication in an Ember application.
-   Enforce authentication in protected routes.

## Preparation

1.  [Fork and clone](https://git.generalassemb.ly/ga-wdi-boston/meta/wiki/ForkAndClone)
    this repository.
1.  Install dependencies with `npm install` and `bower install`.
1.  Start any API based on a recent version of the [Rails API
    Template](https://git.generalassemb.ly/ga-wdi-boston/rails-api-template) or the
    [Express API
    Template](https://git.generalassemb.ly/ga-wdi-boston/express-api-template).
1.  Start the front-end server with `ember server`.

## From end to end

Watch as I sign up for a new account on our demo app.

*Other than the flash messages on the page, did anything change?  What about in
the Chrome Developer Tools?*

Take some time and sign in on your own, and check to see if anything in the
Chrome Dev Tools has changed.

Now that we have added a key tool to our personal developer toolkit lets look
at how it's implemented.

## Follow Along

Let's walk through file by file to see what's happening.  I will ask
developers to guide me through the files while correcting any misunderstandings.

First let's start down the template and component trail, then we'll work our way
up with actions.

*Remember: Data down, actions up.*

While going up the Ember hierarchy we may need to stop a some point to discuss
services.

## Additional Resources

-   [Implementing Authentication with Ember Services - Ember
    Igniter](http://emberigniter.com/implementing-authentication-with-ember-services/)
-   [jpadilla/ember-simple-auth-token: Ember Simple Auth extension that is
    compatible with token-based authentication like
    JWT.](https://github.com/jpadilla/ember-simple-auth-token)
-   [simplabs/ember-simple-auth: A library for implementing
    authentication/authorization in Ember.js
    applications.](https://github.com/simplabs/ember-simple-auth)
-   [EmberJS Authentication Tutorial](https://auth0.com/blog/emberjs-authentication-tutorial/)
-   [How To Import A Library on Ember.js](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38919757/how-to-import-a-library-on-ember-js)

## [License](LICENSE)

1.  All content is licensed under a CC­BY­NC­SA 4.0 license.
1.  All software code is licensed under GNU GPLv3. For commercial use or
    alternative licensing, please contact legal@ga.co.
